Add the AdGuard Home secion, move a few articles (#164)
AdguardTeam/KnowledgeBaseDNS: docs/adguard-home/getting-started.md

---
title: Getting started
sidebar_position: 2
---

## Installation {#installation}

### Official releases

Download the archive with the binary file for your operating system from the [latest stable release page][releases]. The full list of supported platforms as well as links to beta and edge (unstable) releases can be found on [our platforms page][platforms].

To install AdGuard Home as a service, unpack the archive, enter the `AdGuardHome` directory, and run:

```sh
./AdGuardHome -s install
```

#### Notes

> - Users of **Fedora Linux** and its derivatives: install AdGuard Home into the `/usr/local/bin` directory. Otherwise, it may cause issues with SELinux and permissions. See [issue 765] and [issue 3281].

Reviewer: если с otherwise, то так: Otherwise, SELinux and permissions issues may occur.

- Users of **macOS 10.15 Catalina** and newer should place the AdGuard Home working directory inside the `/Applications` directory.

### Docker and Snap

We also provide an [official AdGuard Home docker image][docker] and an [official Snap Store package][snap] for experienced users.

### Other

Some other unofficial options include:

> - (Maintained by @frenck) [Home Assistant add-on][has].

Reviewer 2: Не уверен, что @ будут автоматически вести на профили на GH

- (Maintained by [@gramakri](https://github.com/gramakri)) [Cloudron app][cloudron].

[aghaur]:     https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/adguardhome/
[arch]:       https://www.archlinux.org/
[archarm]:    https://archlinuxarm.org/
[aur]:        https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository
[cloudron]:   https://git.cloudron.io/cloudron/adguard-home-app
[docker]:     https://hub.docker.com/r/adguard/adguardhome
[has]:        https://github.com/hassio-addons/addon-adguard-home
[issue 3281]: https://github.com/AdguardTeam/AdGuardHome/issues/3281
[issue 765]:  https://github.com/AdguardTeam/AdGuardHome/issues/765#issuecomment-752262353
[luci]:       https://github.com/kongfl888/luci-app-adguardhome
[platforms]:  https://github.com/AdguardTeam/AdGuardHome/wiki/Platforms
[releases]:   https://github.com/AdguardTeam/AdGuardHome/releases/latest
[snap]:       https://snapcraft.io/adguard-home

## First start {#first-time}

First of all, check your firewall settings. To install and use AdGuard Home, the following ports and protocols must be available:

- 3000/TCP for the initial installation;
- 80/TCP for the web interface;
- 53/UDP for the DNS server.

> You may need to open additional ports for protocols other than plain DNS, for example DNS-over-HTTPS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may need to open additional ports for protocols other than plain DNS, such as DNS-over-HTTPS.
```

DNS servers bind to port 53, which requires superuser privileges most of the time, [see below](#running-without-superuser). Therefore, on unix systems you need to run it with `sudo` or `doas` in terminal:

```sh
sudo ./AdGuardHome
```

On Windows, run `cmd.exe` or PowerShell with admin privileges and run `AdGuardHome.exe` from there.

> When you run AdGuard Home for the first time, it starts listening to `0.0.0.0:3000` and prompts you to open it in your browser:

Reviewer 2: я в жтом плохо понимаю, но выше было "listen on", а тут "listen to". Возможно, и так и так можно, просто обращаю внимание

```none
AdGuard Home is available at the following addresses:
go to http://127.0.0.1:3000
go to http://[::1]:3000
[…]
```

There you will go through the initial configuration wizard.

> ![AdGuard Home network interface selection screen](https://cdn.adtidy.org/content/kb/dns/adguard-home/install2.png)

Reviewer 2: лучше jpg

> ![AdGuard Home network interface selection screen](https://cdn.adtidy.org/content/kb/dns/adguard-home/install2.jpg)

Reviewer 2: должно быть .png, и в следующем скрине тоже

![AdGuard Home user creation screen](https://cdn.adtidy.org/content/kb/dns/adguard-home/install3.png)

See [our article on running AdGuard Home securely](running-securely.md) for guidance on how to select the initial configuration that fits you best.

## Running as a service {#service}

The next step would be to register AdGuard Home as a system service (aka daemon). To install AdGuard Home as a service, run:

```sh
sudo ./AdGuardHome -s install
```

> On Windows, run `cmd.exe` with admin privileges and run `AdGuardHome.exe -s install` to register a windows service.

Reviewer 2: Windows service вероятно с большой буквы

Here are the other commands you might need to control the service:

- `AdGuardHome -s uninstall`: Uninstall the AdGuard Home service.
- `AdGuardHome -s start`: Start the service.
- `AdGuardHome -s stop`: Stop the service.
- `AdGuardHome -s restart`: Restart the service.
- `AdGuardHome -s status`: Show the current service status.

### Logs

> By default, the logs are written to stderr when you run AdGuard Home in a terminal. If you run it as a service, the log output depends on the platform:

Reviewer 2: stderr не должно быть закавычено как `stderr`?

- On macOS, the log is written to `/var/log/AdGuardHome.*.log` files.

> - On other unixes, the log is written to `syslog` or `journald`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On other Unixes, the log is written to `syslog` or `journald`.
```

- On Windows, the log is written to the Windows event log.

You can change this behavior in the AdGuard Home [configuration file][conf].

[conf]: https://github.com/AdguardTeam/AdGuardHome/wiki/Configuration

## Updating {#update}

> ![An example of an update notification](https://cdn.adtidy.org/content/kb/dns/adguard-home/updatenotification.png)

Reviewer 2: лучше jpg

> ![An example of an update notification](https://cdn.adtidy.org/content/kb/dns/adguard-home/updatenotification.jpg)

Reviewer 2: тоже надо заменить на .png

1. Replace the old AdGuard Home executable file with the new one.

1. Restart AdGuard Home.

[mupd]: https://github.com/AdguardTeam/AdGuardHome/wiki/FAQ#manual-update

### Docker, Home Assistant, and Snapcraft updates

Auto-updates for Docker, Hass.io/Home Assistant, and Snapcraft installations are disabled. Update the image instead.

### Command-line update

To update AdGuard Home package without the need to use Web API run:

```sh
./AdGuardHome --update
```

## Configuring devices {#configure-devices}

### Router

This setup will automatically cover all devices connected to your home router, and you won’t need to configure each of them manually.

1. Open the preferences for your router. Usually, you can access it from your browser via a URL, such as <http://192.168.0.1/> or <http://192.168.1.1/>. You may be prompted to enter a password. If you don’t remember it, you can often reset the password by pressing a button on the router itself, but be aware that if this procedure is chosen, you will probably lose the entire router configuration. If your router requires an app to set it up, please install the app on your phone or PC and use it to access the router’s settings.

> 1. Find the DHCP/DNS settings. Look for the DNS letters next to a field which allows two or three sets of numbers, each broken into four groups of one to three digits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Find the DHCP/DNS settings. Look for the DNS letters next to a field that allows two or three sets of numbers, each divided into four groups of one to three digits.
```

1. Enter your AdGuard Home server addresses there.

1. On some router types, a custom DNS server cannot be set up. In that case, setting up AdGuard Home as a DHCP server may help. Otherwise, you should check the router manual on how to customize DNS servers on your specific router model.

### Windows

> 1. Open Control Panel through Start menu or Windows search.

Reviewer 2: Предлагаю везде тут выделить названия кнопок и окон при помощи italic

1. Go to *Network and Internet* category and then to *Network and Sharing Center.*

> 1. On the left side of the screen find the *Change adapter settings* button and click it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the left side of the screen, find the *Change adapter settings* button and click it.
```

1. Select your active connection, right-click it and choose *Properties.*

> 1. Find *Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/IPv4)* (or, for IPv6, *Internet Protocol Version 6 (TCP/IPv6)*) in the list, select it and then click Properties again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Find *Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/IPv4)* (or, for IPv6, *Internet Protocol Version 6 (TCP/IPv6)*) in the list, select it, and then click Properties again.
```

> 1. Find *Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/IPv4)* (or, for IPv6, *Internet Protocol Version 6 (TCP/IPv6)*) in the list, select it, and then click Properties again.

Reviewer 2: `Properties` should probably be wrapped into stars `*` for italic, just like in the previous list item

1. Choose *Use the following DNS server addresses* and enter your AdGuard Home server addresses.

### macOS

1. Click the Apple icon and go to *System Preferences.*

1. Click *Network.*

1. Select the first connection in your list and click *Advanced.*

1. Select the DNS tab and enter your AdGuard Home server addresses.

> ### Android

Reviewer 2: Всё, что касается Андроид-инструкций, в целом на мой взгляд крайне индивидуально для разных моделей. Например, где-то надо делать тап по иконке Wi-Fi, где-то лонгтап. Где-то кнопка Настроек выпадает сразу, где-то нет. В общем, я бы добавил где-то фразу типа дисклеймера, что инструкция может отличаться в зависимости от конкретной модели вашего телефона.

> 1. From the Android Menu home screen, tap *Settings.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the Android menu home screen, tap *Settings.*
```

> 1. Tap Wi-Fi on the menu. The screen listing all of the available networks will be shown (it is impossible to set custom DNS for mobile connection).

Reviewer 2: на всех андроидах по разному, например у меня это лонгтап - одиночный тап просто переключает состояние сети. Ну и вообще можно в самом начале пункта про Андроид сказать, что может отличаться от модели к модели

Author: Задача про обновление инструкции есть, но до неё пока не добрались.

> 1. Tap *Wi-Fi* on the menu. The screen listing all of the available networks will be shown (it is impossible to set custom DNS for mobile connection).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Tap *Wi-Fi* on the menu. The screen will all of the available networks will be displayed (it is impossible to set custom DNS for mobile connection).
```

1. Long press the network you’re connected to and tap *Modify Network.*

> 1. On some devices, you may need to check the box for *Advanced* to see further settings. To adjust your Android DNS settings, you will need to switch the IP settings from *DHCP* to *Static.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On some devices, you may need to check the box for *Advanced* to see more settings. To adjust your Android DNS settings, you will need to change the IP settings from *DHCP* to *Static*.
```

1. Change set DNS 1 and DNS 2 values to your AdGuard Home server addresses.

### iOS

1. From the home screen, tap *Settings.*

1. Choose *Wi-Fi* in the left menu (it is impossible to configure DNS for mobile networks).

1. Tap the name of the currently active network.

> 1. In the *DNS* field enter your AdGuard Home server addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the *DNS* field, enter your AdGuard Home server addresses.
```

## Running without superuser (Linux only) {#running-without-superuser}

> You can run AdGuard Home without superuser privileges, but you must either grant the binary a capability (on Linux) or instruct it to use a different port (all platforms).

Reviewer 2: Почему тут есть уточнение `(all platforms)`, но при этом в названии раздела указано `(Linux only)`?

> You can run AdGuard Home without superuser privileges, but you need to either grant the binary a capability (on Linux) or instruct it to use a different port (all platforms).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run AdGuard Home without superuser privileges, but you must either grant the binary a capability (on Linux) or instruct it to use a different port (all platforms).
```

### Granting the necessary capabilities

Using this method requires the `setcap` utility. You may need to install it using your Linux distribution’s package manager.

> To allow AdGuard Home running on Linux to listen on port 53 without superuser privileges and bind its DNS servers to a particular interface run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow AdGuard Home running on Linux to listen on port 53 without superuser privileges and bind its DNS servers to a particular interface, run:
```

```sh
sudo setcap 'CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE=+eip CAP_NET_RAW=+eip' ./AdGuardHome
```

Then run `./AdGuardHome` as an unprivileged user.

### Changing the DNS listen port

To configure AdGuard Home to listen on a port that does not require superuser privileges, stop AdGuard Home, open `AdGuardHome.yaml` in your editor, and find these lines:

```yaml
dns:
    # …
    port: 53
```

> You can change the port to anything above 1024 to avoid requiring superuser privileges. If the file does not exist, create it in the same folder, type these two lines down and save.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change the port to anything above 1024 to avoid requiring superuser privileges. If the file does not exist, create it in the same folder, type these two lines down, and save.
```

> You can change the port to anything above 1024 to avoid requiring superuser privileges. If the file does not exist, create it in the same folder, type these two lines down, and save.

Reviewer 2: >these two lines

В примере 3 строки. Я так понимаю, `# …` можно игнорировать? Если да, будет ли это очевидно для всех читающих?

## Limitations {#limitations}

Some file systems don't support the `mmap(2)` system call that the statistics system requires. See also [issue 1188].

You can resolve this issue:

> - either by supplying the `--work-dir DIRECTORY` arguments to `AdGuardHome` binary. This option will tell AGH to use another directory for all its files instead of the default `./data` directory.

Reviewer 2: кажется, что "to the `AdGuardHome` binary"
